For development purposes, you can create a self‑signed certificate,
but in production only use a certificate from a certified authority.
I'll show you how to get one for free in the next section.
The easiest way is to use the Java's key ool with the following command.
The alias is the unique name/identifier for this certificate.
Then you have the key storetype.
In this case, it will be RSA.
The size of the keystore in this case is 256 bit,
and the password for the keystore, and the validity of the certificate in days.
Now with Spring Security and Spring Boot,
all we need to do is add the following properties to your
application properties file or YAML file,
the server port 443, which is the default HTTPS port,
the key‑store‑password, the location of the keystore,
the type of the keystore and the alias of the keystore.
If we restart our application, you can see that we can now connect via HTTPS.
Now because this is a self‑signed certificate,
and not one issued by a certificate authority,
the browser complains and warns the user that they cannot
verify the server is who they say they are.
For now, we will proceed and add the exception.
Again, you wouldn't want your users to do this.
Generally, users omit the protocol when typing the URL into the browser.
Now currently browsers will default to HTTP,
so if we do this for our portfolio site,
we get the error page,
as the application is no longer listening on port 80 for HTTP requests.
One way to do this is to send a redirect response to the user,
instructing them to redirect to the HTTPS endpoint. Now,
Spring Boot will only allow us to configure one connector via the properties,
and since we already used the one for port 443 using HTTPS,
we need another one for HTTP and port 80, which will
do the redirect to the HTTPS one.
To do this, we need to access the TomcatServerletWebServerFactory,
which is used by Spring Boot to configure the embedded Tomcat server.
We will override the postProcessContext method and add these
security constraints of CONFIDENTIAL for all requests,
meaning that we want HTTPS for everything.
We add the connector that will listen on port 80 for HTTP requests and
redirect them to HTTPS on port 443, where our other connector configured by
Spring is listening to. We then expose this factory as a bean so Spring Boot
uses it to create the embedded Tomcat server.
Now I have deployed this site on my AWS EC2 server, so it is now
accessible through the web via the public hostname. If we now access this site via HTTP, we get redirected to HTTPS.